Sindbad the sailor, after all his adventures and wanderings, settled  down in happiness and prosperity in Bagdad. Here are the stories which  he told to his friends of his seven marvelous voyages.



THE FIRST VOYAGE

My father died while I was young and left me a fortune. Having no one to  restrain me, I fell into bad ways, by which I not only wasted my time,  but injured my health, and destroyed my property.

When I recovered, I collected together what was left of my fortune, and  bought merchandise, which I loaded on board a vessel for the port of  Balsora.





During the voyage we touched at several islands, where we sold or  exchanged our goods. We were one day becalmed near a small island. As  its appearance was inviting, we determined to dine upon it. But while we  were laughing and preparing for dinner, the island began to move, and at  the same moment the people in the ship called out that we were on the  back of a monstrous whale. Some jumped into the boat, and others swam to  the ship; but before I could get off the animal dived into the sea, and  I had only time to catch hold of a piece of wood that had been brought  from the ship to serve as a table. Upon this piece of timber I was  carried away by the current. The others reached the vessel, but a gale  sprang up and the ship sailed without me. I floated during that and the  next night, but the following morning was thrown on a small island.

I found fresh water and fruit. I looked about for some house, but found  none. There were a number of colts grazing together, but no traces of  other animals. When evening approached I took some more fruit and  climbed in a tree to sleep. About midnight the sound of trumpets and  drums seemed to pass around the island, which continued until morning,  when again it seemed to be uninhabited. On the next day I found that the  island was small, and that no other land was in sight. I therefore gave  myself up as lost. Nor were my fears lessened when I found that the  shore abounded with enormous serpents and other sea monsters. I found,  however, that they were timid, and that the rattling of sticks would  make them dive into the water.

I climbed the tree next night, and the drums and trumpets returned as  before. On the third day, I had the satisfaction of seeing a body of  men, who, on landing, were astonished to see me there. Having related  to them how I came hither, they told me they were grooms of King  Mihrage; that the island belonged to genii, who visited it every night  with drums and trumpets; that the genii had allowed their sovereign to  train his colts upon the island; and that they, being sent every six  months to select some, had arrived for that purpose.

The grooms carried me to King Mihrage, who allowed me apartments in his  palace.

One day I saw men unloading a ship in the harbor, and saw that some of  the bales were those which I had sent to Balsora. Going up to the  captain, I said:

"Captain, I am Sindbad."

"Surely," said he, "I and the passengers saw Sindbad swallowed in the  waves many hundred miles away."

Some others, however, coming up, I was recognized; and the captain then  restored me the bales, with many congratulations. I made a valuable  present to King Mihrage, who bestowed a rich gift on me in return; and,  having made some advantageous purchases, I arrived at Balsora, where,  after I had sold my goods, I found myself possessed of a hundred  thousand sequins.



THE SECOND VOYAGE

Becoming weary of a quiet life in Balsora, and having bought trading  goods, I again went to sea with some merchants. After touching at  several places, we landed at an uninhabited island. We amused ourselves  in different ways, but I, having taken my wine and provisions, sat down  and fell asleep. When I awoke, I found that my companions were gone, and  that the ship had sailed. I climbed to the top of a very high tree, and  perceived at a distance an object that was very large and white. I  descended to the ground, and ran toward this strange-looking object.  When I approached it I found it was about fifty paces in circumference,  quite round, and as smooth as ivory, but had no sort of opening. It was  now almost sunset, and suddenly the sky became darkened. I looked up and  beheld a bird of enormous size, moving like a prodigious cloud toward  me. I recollected that I had heard of a bird called the roc, so large  that it could carry away young elephants, and I therefore conjectured  that the large object I had been looking at was the egg of this bird.

As the bird approached I crept close to the egg, so that I had one of  the legs of this winged animal before me when it alighted. This limb  being as large as the trunk of a tree, I tied myself firmly to it with  my turban.

The next morning the bird flew away, and carried me from this desert  island. I was borne so high that I could not see the earth, and then  carried downward so swiftly that I lost my senses. When I recovered, I  was on the ground. I quickly untied the cloth that bound me, and  scarcely was I free when the bird, having taken up a large serpent,  again flew away. I found myself in a deep valley, the sides of which  were too steep to be climbed. As I walked up and down in despair I  noticed that the valley was covered with diamonds of enormous size. But  I soon saw other objects of much less agreeable appearance. Immense  serpents were peeping out of holes on every side. When night came, I  took shelter in a cave, the entrance of which I guarded with the largest  stones I could find, but the hissing of the serpents entirely deprived  me of sleep. When day returned, the serpents retired to their holes; and  I came out of my cave, but with extreme fear. I walked heedless of the  serpents until I became weary, and then sat down and fell asleep. I was  awakened by something which fell near me. It was a large piece of fresh  meat, and presently I saw several other pieces.

I was now convinced that I must be in the famous valley of diamonds, and  that the pieces of meat were thrown in by merchants, who expected eagles  to pounce upon the flesh, to which diamonds were almost sure to  adhere. I hastened to pick up some of the largest diamonds I could find,  which I put into a little bag, and fastened it to my girdle. I then  selected the largest piece of flesh in the valley, which I tied to my  waist with the cloth of my turban, and then lay down upon my face to  wait for the eagles. Very soon one of the strongest pounced upon the  meat on my back, and flew with me to its nest on the top of the  mountain. The merchants began shouting to frighten the eagles, and when  they had forced the birds to quit their prey, one of them came to the  nest where I was. At first the man was frightened when he saw me there,  but after recovering himself, asked me how I got there. I told him and  the rest of the merchants my story. I then opened my bag, and they  declared that they had never seen diamonds of equal luster and size with  mine. The merchants having gathered their diamonds together, we left the  place the next morning, and crossed the mountains until we reached a  port. We there took ship and proceeded to the island of Roha. At that  place I exchanged some of my diamonds for other merchandise, and we went  on to Balsora. From Balsora I reached my native city, Bagdad, in which I  lived easily upon the vast riches I had won.


THE THIRD VOYAGE

I soon resolved upon a third voyage, and once more took ship at Balsora.  After we had been at sea a few weeks, we were overtaken by a dreadful  storm, and were obliged to cast anchor near an island which the captain  had endeavored to avoid; for he assured us that it was inhabited by  pigmy savages, covered with hair, who would speedily attack us in great  numbers. Soon an innumerable multitude of frightful savages, about two  feet high, boarded the ship. Resistance was useless. They took down our  sails, cut our cable, towed the ship to land, and made us all go on  shore. We went towards the interior of the island and discovered a large  building. It was a lofty palace, having a gate of ebony, which we pushed  open, and soon discovered a room in which were human bones and roasting  spits. Presently there appeared a hideous black man, who was as tall as  a palm tree. He had but one eye, his teeth were long and sharp, and his  nails like the talons of a bird. He took me up as I would a kitten, but  finding I was little better than skin and bone, put me down with  contempt. The captain, being the fattest of the party, was sacrificed  to his appetite. When the monster had finished his meal he stretched  himself upon a great stone bench in the portico, and fell asleep,  snoring louder than thunder. In this manner he slept till morning. In  the morning he went out. I said to my companions:

"Do not waste time in useless sorrow; let us hurry to look for timber  to make rafts."

We found some timber on the seashore, and labored hard; but having no  tools, it was evening before we had finished; and while we were on the  point of pushing the raft off the beach, our hideous tyrant returned  and drove us to his palace, as if we had been a flock of sheep. We saw  another of our companions sacrificed, and the giant lay down to sleep as  before. Our desperate condition gave us courage; nine of us got up very  softly, and held the points of the roasting spits in the fire until we  made them red-hot; we then thrust them at once into the monster's eye.  He uttered a frightful scream, and having tried in vain to find us,  opened the ebony gate and left the palace. We did not stay long behind  him, but ran to the seashore, got our rafts ready, and waited for  daylight to embark. But at dawn we beheld our monstrous enemy, led by  two giants of equal size, and followed by many others. We jumped upon  our rafts, and pushed them from the shore, the tide helping us. The  giants seeing us likely to escape, tore great pieces of rock, and wading  in the water up to their waists, hurled them at us with all their might.  They sank every one of the rafts but that on which I was; thus all my  companions, except two, were drowned. We rowed as fast as we could, and  got out of the reach of these monsters. We were at sea two days, but at  last found a pleasant island. After eating some fruit, we lay down to  sleep, but were soon awakened by the hissing of an enormous serpent. One  of my comrades was instantly devoured by this terrific creature. I  climbed up a tree as fast as I could, and reached the topmost branches;  my remaining companion was following me, but the dreadful reptile  entwined itself round the tree and caught him. The serpent then went  down and glided away. I waited until late the next day before I ventured  to descend. Evening again approached, and I gathered together a great  quantity of small wood, brambles, and thorns. Having made them into  fagots, I formed a circle round the tree, and fastened the uppermost to  the branches of the tree. I then climbed up to the highest branches. At  night the serpent came again, but could not reach the tree; and crawling  vainly round and round my little fortification until daylight, he went  away. The next day I spied a ship in full sail a long way off. With the  linen of my turban I made a signal, which was perceived. I was taken on  board the ship and there told my adventures. The captain was very kind  to me. He said that he had some bales of goods which had belonged to a  merchant who had unintentionally left him some time ago on an  uninhabited island. As this man was undoubtedly dead, he intended to  sell the goods for the benefit of his relatives, and I should have the  profit of selling them. I now recollected this was the captain with whom  I sailed on my second voyage. I soon convinced him that I was really  Sindbad, whom he supposed to have been lost. He was delighted at the  discovery, and eagerly acknowledged that the property was mine. I  continued my voyage, sold my goods to great advantage, and returned  to Bagdad.

MY FOURTH VOYAGE

My desire of seeing foreign countries rendered my pleasures at home  unsatisfactory. I therefore arranged my affairs, commenced a voyage to  Persia, and having bought a large stock of goods loaded a ship and again  embarked. The ship struck upon a rock, and the cargo was lost. A few  others and myself were borne by the current to an island, on which we  were surrounded by black savages, and carried to their huts. The savages  offered us herbs; my companions eagerly took them, for they were hungry.  Grief would not allow me to eat; and presently I saw that the herbs had  made my comrades senseless. Rice, mixed with oil of cocoanuts, was then  offered to us, which my companions ate greedily and grew fat. My unhappy  friends were then devoured one after another, having become appetizing  to the cannibals. But I languished so much that they did not think me  fit to eat. They left me to the care of an old man, from whom I managed  to escape; and taking care to go a contrary way from that which the  savages had taken I never stopped till night. At the end of seven days,  on the seashore I found a number of white persons gathering pepper. They  asked me in Arabic who I was, and whence I came; and I gave them an  account of the shipwreck, and of my escape. They treated me kindly and  presented me to their King, who treated me with great liberality. During  my stay with them, I observed that when the King and his nobles went  hunting, they rode their horses without bridle or saddle. With the  assistance of some workmen I made a bridle and saddle, and having put  them upon one of the King's horses, presented the animal, thus  equipped, to His Majesty. He was so delighted that he instantly mounted  and rode about the grounds almost the whole day. All the ministers of  state and the nobility induced me to make saddles and bridles for them,  for which they made me such magnificent presents that I soon became very  rich. The King at last requested that I would marry, and become one of  his nation. From a variety of circumstances I could not refuse, and he  therefore gave me one of the ladies of his Court, who was young, rich,  beautiful, and virtuous. We lived in the greatest harmony in a palace  belonging to my wife. I had made a good friend of a very worthy man who  lived in this place. Hearing one day that his wife had just died, I went  to condole with him on this unexpected calamity. We were alone together,  and he appeared to be in the deepest grief. After I had talked with him  some time on the uselessness of so much sorrow, he told me that it was  an established law that the living husband should be buried with the  deceased wife, and that within an hour he must submit. I shuddered at  the dreadful custom. In a short time the woman was attired in her most  costly dress and jewels, and placed in an open coffin. The procession  then began, the husband following the corpse. They ascended to the top  of an exceedingly high mountain, and a great stone was removed, which  covered the mouth of a deep pit. The corpse was let down, and the  husband, having taken leave of his friends, was put into another open  coffin, with a pot of water and seven small loaves, and he was let down.  The stone was replaced and they all returned. The horror of this was  still fresh upon my mind, when my wife fell sick and died. The King and  the whole Court, out of respect to me, instantly prepared to assist at a  similar ceremony with me. I restrained the feeling of despair until we  arrived at the top of the mountain, when I fell at the feet of the King  and begged him to spare my life. All I said was ineffectual, and after  my wife was let down, I also was put into the deep pit, everyone being  totally indifferent to my cries and lamentations. I made the cave echo  with my vain complaints. I lived some days on the bread and water which  had been put into my coffin, but this supply was at length exhausted. I  then wandered to a remote part of this frightful cave and lay down to  prepare for death. I was thus wishing only for a speedy termination of  my misery, when I heard something walking and panting. I started up,  upon which the thing panted still more, and then ran away. I pursued it,  and sometimes it seemed to stop, but on my approach continued to go on  before me. I pursued it, until at last I saw a glimmering light like a  star. This redoubled my eagerness, until at last I discovered a hole  large enough to allow my escape. I crept through the aperture, and found  myself on the seashore, and discovered that the creature was a sea  monster which had been accustomed to enter at that hole to feed upon the  dead bodies. Having eaten some shellfish, I returned to the cave, where  I collected all the jewels I could find in the dark. These I carried to  the seashore, and tied them up very neatly into bales with the cords  that let down the coffins. I laid them on the beach, waiting till some  ship should pass. In two days a ship came out of the harbor, and passed  by that part of the coast. I made a signal, and a boat took me on board.  I was obliged to say that I had been wrecked; for, had they known my  real story, I should have been carried back, as the captain was a  native of this country. We touched at several islands, and at the port  of Kela, where I found a ship ready to sail for Balsora; and having  presented some jewels to the captain who had brought me to Kela, I  sailed, and at last arrived at Bagdad.


THE FIFTH VOYAGE


Having forgotten my former perils, I built a ship at my own expense,  loaded it with a rich cargo, and, taking with me other merchants, once  more set sail. We were much driven about by a storm, and at length  landed upon a desert island to search for fresh water. There we found a  roc's egg, equal in size to the one I had seen before. The merchants and  sailors gathered round it, and though I advised them not to meddle with  it, they nevertheless made a hole in it with their hatchets, and picked  out the young roc, piece after piece, and roasted it. They had scarcely  finished when two of the old birds appeared in the air. We hurried on  board ship and set sail, but had not gone far before we saw the immense  birds approaching us, and soon after they hovered over the ship. One of  them let fall an enormous fragment of stone, which fell into the sea  close beside the ship, but the other let fall a piece which split our  ship. I caught hold of a bit of the wreck, on which I was borne by the  wind and tide to an island, the shore of which was very steep. I reached  the dry land, and found the most delicious fruits and excellent water,  which refreshed me. Farther in the island I saw a feeble old man sitting  near a rivulet. When I enquired of him how he came there, he only  answered by signs for me to carry him over the rivulet, that he might  eat some fruit. I took him on my back, and crossed the brook, but  instead of getting down, he clasped his legs so firmly round my throat  that I thought he would strangle me. I soon fainted with pain and  fright. When I recovered, the old fellow was still sitting on my neck,  and he quickly made me rise up and walk under the trees, while he  gathered the fruit at his ease. This lasted a long time. One day, while  carrying him about, I picked up a large gourd called a calabash, and,  having cleared out the inside, I pressed into it the juice of grapes.  Having filled it, I left it for several days, and at length found that  it became excellent wine. I drank of this, and for a while forgot my  sorrows, so that I began to sing with cheerfulness. The old man made me  give him the calabash, and liking the flavor of the wine, he drank it  off, soon became intoxicated, fell from my shoulders, and, died in  convulsions. I hastened to the seaside, and presently found the crew of  a ship. They told me I had fallen into the hands of the Old Man of the  Sea, and was the first person that had ever escaped. I sailed with them,  and the captain, when we landed, took me to some persons whose  employment was to gather cocoanuts. We all took up stones and pelted the  monkeys that were at the very top of the cocoanut trees, and these  animals in return pelted us with cocoanuts. When we had obtained as  many as we could carry, we returned to the town. I soon obtained a  considerable sum by the cocoanuts I thus gathered, and at length sailed  for my native land.



THE SIXTH VOYAGE


At the expiration of another year, I prepared for a sixth voyage. This  proved very long and unfortunate, for the pilot lost his course and knew  not where to steer. At length he told us we must inevitably be dashed to  pieces against a rock, which we were fast approaching. In a few moments  the vessel was a complete wreck. We saved our lives, our provisions, and  our goods.

The shore on which we were cast was at the foot of a mountain which it  was impossible to climb, so that I shortly beheld my companions die one  after another. There was a frightful cavern in the rock, through which  flowed a river. To this, in a fit of desperation, I resolved to trust  myself. I went to work and made a long raft. I loaded it with bales of  rich stuffs, and large pieces of rock crystal, of which the mountain was  in a great measure formed. I went on board the raft, and the current  carried me along. I was carried in darkness during many days, and at  last fell asleep. When I awoke, I found myself in a pleasant country.  My raft was tied up and some blacks, who were near me, said that they  had found me floating in the river which waters their land. They took me  to their King, and carefully conducted my cargo with me. When we came to  the city of Serindib, I related my story to the monarch, who ordered it  to be written in letters of gold. I presented the King with some of the  most beautiful pieces of rock crystal, and entreated him to let me  return to my own country, which he readily agreed to, and even gave me  a letter and a present to my sovereign, the Caliph Haroun Alrashid. The  present consisted of a ruby made into a cup, and decorated with pearls;  the skin of a serpent, which appeared like burnished gold, and which  could repel disease; some aloe-wood, camphire, and a beautiful female  slave. I returned to my native country, delivered the present to the  Caliph, and received his thanks, with a reward.



THE SEVENTH AND LAST VOYAGE

The Caliph Haroun Alrashid one day sent for me, and told me I must bear  a present to the King of Serindib. I ventured to protest on account of  my age, but I could not persuade him to give up his plan. I arrived at  Serindib, and prayed an audience with the King. I was conducted to the  palace with great respect, and delivered to the monarch the Caliph's  letter and present. The present consisted of the most ingenious and  valuable works of art, with which the King was exceedingly delighted,  and he was also pleased to acknowledge how much he esteemed my services.  When I departed, the monarch bestowed on me some rich gifts; but the  ship had not long been at sea, before it was attacked by pirates, who  seized the vessel, and carried us away as slaves. I was sold to a  merchant. When my master found that I could use the bow and arrow with  skill, he took me upon an elephant, and carried me to a vast forest in  the country. My master ordered me to climb a high tree, and wait there  until I saw a troop of elephants pass by. I was then to shoot at them,  and if one of them fell, I was to go to the city and give the merchant  notice. Having given me these directions, and a bag of provisions, he  left me. On the morning of the second day, I saw a great number of  elephants. I succeeded in shooting one of them, upon which the others  went away, and I returned to the city and told my employer, who praised  my work. We went back to the forest and dug a hole, in which the  elephant was to remain until it decayed and left the teeth free. I  continued this trade nearly two months, and killed an elephant almost  every day. One morning all the elephants came up to the tree in which I  was and trumpeted dreadfully. One of them fastened his trunk round the  tree and tore it up by the roots. I fell with the tree; the animal took  me up with his trunk, and placed me on his back, and then, at the head  of his troop, he brought me to a place where he gently laid me on the  ground, and they all went away. I discovered that I was upon a large  broad hill, covered all over with the bones and teeth of elephants, and  was soon convinced that this was their burying-place. I reached the city  once more; my master thought I was lost, for he had seen the torn tree,  and found my bow and arrows. I told him what had happened, and led him  to the hill. We loaded the elephant on which we had come, and thus  collected more teeth than a man could have obtained in his whole life.  The merchant told me that not only he himself, but the whole city, was  indebted to me, and that I should return to my own country with  sufficient wealth to make me happy. My patron loaded a ship with ivory,  and the other merchants made me valuable presents. I reached Balsora  and landed my ivory, which I found to be more valuable than I had  expected. I set out with caravans to travel overland, and at last  reached Bagdad, where I presented myself to the Caliph, and gave an  account of my embassy. He was so astonished at my adventure with the  elephants that he ordered the narrative of it to be written in letters  of gold and to be deposited in his treasury.
