
----SCENE----
A long time ago, a woodcutter lived with his wife in a small cottage not  far from a great forest. They had seven children--all boys; and the  youngest was the smallest little fellow ever seen. He was called Tom  Thumb. But though he was so small, he was far cleverer than any of his  brothers, and he heard a great deal more than anybody ever imagined.
It happened that just at this time there was a famine in the land, and  the woodcutter and his wife became so poor that they could no longer  give their boys enough to eat.

----SCENE----
One night--after the boys had gone to bed--the husband sighing deeply,  said--
"We cannot feed our children any longer, and to see them starve before  our eyes is more than I can bear. To-morrow morning, therefore, we will  take them into the forest and leave them in the thickest part of it, so  that they will not be able to find their way back."
His wife wept bitterly at the thought of leaving their children to  perish in the forest; but she, too, thought it better than to see them  die before her eyes. So she consented to her husband's plan.
But all this time Tom Thumb had been awake, and he had overheard all  the conversation. He lay awake a long while thinking what to do. Then,  slipping quietly out of bed, he ran down to the river and filled his  pocket with small white pebbles from the river's brink.

----SCENE----
In the morning the parents called the children, and, after giving them a  crust of bread, they all set out for the wood. Tom Thumb did not say a  word to his brothers of what he had overheard; but, lingering behind, he  dropped the pebbles from his pocket one by one, as they walked, so that  he should be able to find his way home. When they reached a very thick  part of the forest, the father and mother told the children to wait  while they went a little farther to cut wood, but as soon as they were  out of sight they turned and went home by another way.

----SCENE----
When darkness fell, the children began to realize that they were  deserted, and they began to cry loudly. Tom Thumb, however, did not cry.
"Do not weep, my brothers," he said encouragingly. "Only wait until the  moon rises, and we shall soon be able to find our way home."

----SCENE----
When at length the moon rose, it shone down upon the white pebbles  which Tom Thumb had scattered; and, following this path, the children  soon reached their father's house.
But at first they were afraid to go in, and waited outside the door to  hear what their parents were talking about.
Now, it happened that when the father and mother reached home, they  found a rich gentleman had sent them ten crowns, in payment for work  which had been done long before. The wife went out at once and bought  bread and meat, and she and her husband sat down to make a hearty meal.  But the mother could not forget her little ones; and at last she cried  to her husband:
"Alas! where are our poor children? How they would have enjoyed this  good feast!"
The children, listening at the door, heard this and cried out, "Here we  are, mother; here we are!" and, overjoyed, the mother flew to let them  in and kissed them all round.
Their parents were delighted to have their little ones with them again;  but soon the ten crowns were spent, and they found themselves as badly  off as before. Once more they agreed to leave the children in the  forest, and once again Tom Thumb overheard them. This time he did not  trouble himself very much; he thought it would be easy for him to do as  he had done before. He got up very early the next morning to go and get  the pebbles; but, to his dismay, he found the house door securely  locked. Then, indeed, he did not know what to do, and for a little while  he was in great distress. However, at breakfast the mother gave each of  the children a slice of bread, and Tom Thumb thought he would manage to  make his piece of bread do as well as the pebbles, by breaking it up and  dropping the crumbs as he went.
This time the father and mother took the children still deeper and  farther into the wood, and then, slipping away, left them alone.
Tom Thumb consoled his brothers as before; but when he came to look for  the crumbs of bread, not one of them was left. The birds had eaten them  all up, and the poor children were lost in the forest, with no possible  means of finding their way home.
Tom Thumb did not lose courage. He climbed to the top of a high tree and  looked round to see if there was any way of getting help. In the  distance he saw a light burning, and, coming down from the tree, he led  his brothers toward the house from which it came.

----SCENE----
When they knocked at the door, it was opened by a pleasant-looking  woman, and Tom Thumb told her they were poor children who had lost their  road, and begged her to give them a night's shelter.
"Alas, my poor children!" said the woman, "you do not know where you  have come to. This is the house of an ogre who eats up little boys and  girls."
"But, madam," replied Tom Thumb, "what shall we do? If we go back to the  forest we are certain to be torn to pieces by the wolves. We had better,  I think, stay and be eaten by the ogre."
The ogre's wife had pity on the little things, and she thought she would  be able to hide them from her husband for one night. She took them in,  gave them food, and let them warm themselves by the fire.
Very soon there came a loud knocking at the door. It was the ogre come  home. His wife hid the children under the bed, and then hurried to let  her husband in.
No sooner had the ogre entered than he began to sniff this way and  that. "I smell flesh," he said, looking round the room.
"It must be the calf which has just been killed," said his wife.
"I smell child's flesh, I tell you!" cried the ogre, and he suddenly  made a dive under the bed, and drew out the children one by one.
"Oh, ho, madam!" said he; "so you thought to cheat me, did you? But,  really, this is very lucky! I have invited three ogres to dinner  to-morrow; these brats will make a nice dish."
He fetched a huge knife and began sharpening it, while the poor boys  fell on their knees and begged for mercy. But their prayers and  entreaties were useless. The ogre seized one of the children and was  just about to kill him, when his wife said--
"What in the world makes you take the trouble of killing them to-night?  Why don't you leave them till the morning? There will be plenty of time,  and they will be much fresher."
"That is very true," said the ogre, throwing down the knife. "Give them  a good supper, so that they may not get lean, and send them to bed."
Now, the ogre had seven young daughters, who were all about the same age  as Tom Thumb and his brothers. These young ogresses all slept together  in one large bed, and every one of them had a crown of gold on her head.  There was another bed of the same size in the room, and in this the  ogre's wife, having provided them all with nightcaps, put the seven  little boys.
But Tom Thumb was afraid that the ogre might change his mind in the  night, and kill him and his brothers while they were asleep. So he crept  softly out of bed, took off his brothers' nightcaps and his own, and  stole over to the bed where the young ogresses lay. He drew off their  crowns very gently, and put the nightcaps on their heads instead. Then  he put the crowns on his brothers' heads and his own, and got into bed  again.

----SCENE----
In the middle of the night the ogre woke up, and began to be sorry that  he had put off killing the boys until the morning.
"Never put off till to-morrow what you can do to-day," he said; and,  jumping out of bed, he got his knife and walked stealthily to the room  where the boys were. He walked up to the bed, and they were all asleep  except Tom Thumb, who, however, kept his eyes fast shut, and did not  show that he was awake. The ogre touched their heads, one after another,  and feeling the crowns of gold, he said to himself:
"What a mistake I was going to make!" He then went to bed where his own  daughters were sleeping, and, feeling the nightcaps, he said:
"Oh, ho, here you are, my lads!" and in a moment he had killed them all.  He then went back to his own room to sleep till morning.
As soon as Tom Thumb heard him snoring, he roused his brothers, and told  them to dress quickly and follow him. He led them downstairs and out of  the house; and then, stealing on tiptoe through the garden, they jumped  down from the wall into the road and ran swiftly away.

----SCENE----
In the morning, when the ogre found what a dreadful thing he had done,  he was terribly shocked.
"Fetch me my seven-league boots," he cried to his wife. "I will go and  catch those young vipers. They shall pay for this piece of work!" And,  drawing on the magic boots, the ogre set out.
He went striding over the country, stepping from mountain to mountain,  and crossing rivers as if they had been streams. The poor children  watched him coming in fear and trembling. They had found the way to  their father's home, and had very nearly reached it when they saw the  ogre racing after them.
Tom Thumb thought for a moment what was to be done. Then he saw a hollow  place under a large rock.
"Get in there," he said to his brothers.

----SCENE----
When they were all in he crept in himself, but kept his eyes fixed on  the ogre, to see what he would do.
The ogre, seeing nothing of the children, sat down to rest himself on  the very rock under which the poor boys were hiding. He was tired with  his journey, and soon fell fast asleep, and began to snore so loudly  that the little fellows were terrified. Tom Thumb told his brothers to  creep out softly and run home; which they did. Then he crept up to the  ogre, pulled off the seven-league boots very gently and put them on his  own feet, for being fairy boots they could fit themselves to any foot,  however small.
As soon as Tom Thumb had put on the ogre's seven-league boots, he took  ten steps to the Palace, which was seventy miles off, and asked to see  the King. He offered to carry news to the King's army, which was then a  long way off; and so useful was he with his magic boots, that in a short  time he had made money enough to keep himself, his father, his mother  and his six brothers without the trouble of working for the rest of  their lives.
And now let us see what has become of the wicked ogre, whom we left  sleeping on the rock.

----SCENE----
When he awoke he missed his seven-league boots, and set off for home  very angry.
On his way he had to cross a bog; and, forgetting that he was no longer  wearing his magic boots, he tried to cross it with one stride. But,  instead, he put his foot down in the middle and began to sink. As fast  as he tried to pull out one foot, the other sank deeper, until at last  he was swallowed up in the black slime--and that was the end of him.