

There once three bear lived together a little house the middle a wood . 


One them Little , Small , Wee Bear ; one a Middle-Sized Bear ; the wa a Great , Huge Bear . 


And each pot eat porridge : little pot the Little , Small , Wee Bear ; a middle-sized pot the Middle-Sized Bear ; a great big pot the Great , Huge Bear . 
And each chair sit : little chair the Little , Small , Wee Bear ; a middle-sized chair the Middle-Sized Bear ; a great big chair the Great , Huge Bear . 
And each bed sleep : little bed the Little , Small , Wee Bear ; a middle-sized bed the Middle-Sized Bear ; a great big bed the Great , Huge Bear . 


One day made porridge breakfast , poured into their porridge-pots , then went in wood a walk the porridge their breakfast cooling . 
And they out walking , little Old Woman came the house the wood peeped inside . 


First peeped the keyhole ; she peeped the window . 
Then lifted latch peeped the doorway ; , seeing nobody the house , walked . 
And saw porridge cooling the table she wa pleased , she walked long way , wa getting hungry . 
So first tasted porridge the Great , Huge Bear , that too hot . 
Then tasted porridge the Middle-Sized Bear , that too cold . 


And she tasted porridge the Little , Small , Wee Bear , that neither hot too cold , just right . 


And liked so much she ate all ! 
Then little Old Woman sat in chair the Great , Huge Bear , that too hard . 
Then sat in chair the Middle-Sized Bear , that too soft . 
Then sat in chair the Little , Small , Wee Bear , that neither hard too soft , just right . 
And liked so much she sat it suddenly bottom came , she fell plump upon ground . 
Then little Old Woman went upstairs the bedroom , the three Bears slept . 
And first lay on bed the Great , Huge Bear , that too high the head her . 
Then lay on bed the Middle-Sized Bear , that too high the foot her . 
So she lay on bed the Little , Small , Wee Bear , that neither high the head too high the foot , just right . 
And liked so much covered up lay till she fell fast asleep ! 
By by three Bears came home breakfast . 


Now , little Old Woman left spoon the Great , Huge Bear standing his porridge pot . 


`` =Somebody been my porridge ! = '' said Great , Huge Bear , his great , rough , gruff voice . 
And the Middle-Sized Bear looked , saw the spoon standing her porridge-pot . 
`` =Somebody been my porridge ! = '' said Middle-Sized Bear her middle-sized voice . 
Then Little , Small , Wee Bear looked , there the spoon his porridge-pot ; the porridge all gone . 
`` =Somebody been my porridge ha eaten all ! = '' said Little , Small , Wee Bear , his little , small , wee voice . 
Then three Bears began look them . 
Now , little Old Woman not put hard cushion straight she sat the chair the Great , Huge Bear . 
`` =Somebody been sitting my chair ! = '' said Great , Huge Bear , his great , rough , gruff voice . 


And little Old Woman squashed soft cushion the Middle-Sized Bear . 
`` =Somebody been sitting my chair ! = '' said Middle-Sized Bear , her middle-sized voice . 
And know the little Old Woman done the third chair . 
`` =Somebody been sitting my chair ha sat bottom ! = '' said Little , Small , Wee Bear , his little , small , wee voice . 
Then three Bears went upstairs their bedroom . 
Now , little Old Woman pulled pillow the Great , Huge Bear of place . 
`` =Somebody been lying my bed ! = '' said Great , Huge Bear , his great , rough , gruff voice . 
And little Old Woman pulled bolster the Middle-Sized Bear of place . 
`` =Somebody been lying my bed ! = '' said Middle-Sized Bear , her middle-sized voice . 
And Little , Small , Wee Bear came look his bed , bolster place , pillow it place upon the bolster ; upon the pillow wa the little Old Woman 's head , wa in it place , she no business at . 
`` =Somebody been lying my bed -- here is ! = '' cried Little , Small , Wee Bear , his little , small , wee voice . 
The little Old Woman heard her sleep great , rough , gruff voice the Great , Huge Bear , she so fast asleep it seemed her more the roaring the wind , the rumbling thunder . 
And had heard middle-sized voice the Middle-Sized Bear , it only if had heard one speaking a dream . 
But she heard little , small , wee voice the Little , Small , Wee Bear , wa sharp shrill it woke up once . 


Up started , when saw three Bears , one side bed , tumbled at other , jumped of the window ran away the wood her home . 
And three Bears never saw anything of . 
